Hello again you whimsical go to people.
I don't know why I said whimsical.
I like the adjectives in this video I'm going to continue to work on the numb pads going to wire them
up.
We're going to pick a combination.
No not generate them randomly yet.
We're gonna pick the traditional combination of stealth games 0 4 5 1 which you've ever played any 3
4 days X game should be quite familiar and was apparently the number combination to doses front door
for a while.
We're going to make the number pad check if that's the right combination and then open the door if it
is to do that we need to know a couple of things.
First what is the deal with the buttons.
Well we need to know the buttons each have to do a different thing.
So each of our buttons has to be wired up to provide a different input and the display has to update
for each number button.
To do this we have to make extensive use of arrays.
Now you might be asking yourself why would we make the combination in array a couple of things.
One this means that we can make combinations of different size.
So an easy deal might have three a difficult one might have four an impossible.
We have eight.
We also on the number pad to check a guess ether enough buttons press.
So if the if this particular combination is six digits long on the sixth press check it.
Press okay.
And this is gonna be easier to handle by using the size function of arrays.
Okay.
So let's get to it.
First one address is we have this big number pad the middle that really want that.
Let's get rid of it.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm going to open up the locked door and I'm just going to hide the number plate
pop up save this and go back in and it's hidden by default.
It still exists.
It's just hidden.
So I'm fine with that.
Next it will do is we need to go into our number pad.
So to do that when I go to locked door and open up the number of had seen and this needs a script that's
going to script nice blank script called number pad in the interface that looks good to me.
Here it is.
Let's start with the variables we know we're gonna need.
I'm coming to distraction free mode here.
First thing we need we need a combination.
And as I said earlier I'm going to use an array.
Now we've looked at arrays race before so that you're quite familiar as an array of integers so zero
comma four comma five comma one.
So now it knows I'm an array.
I have four entries and they all happen to be integers because this has got it they don't all have to
be integers.
This could be an A for example possibly an A but in this particular case that all integers.
I also want a blank array.
Should we call guests.
And that's where we get to store the information.
So when we're in this particular number pad and we're pressing the buttons that was going to happen.
Let's take a quick look at a number pad because couple more things I want.
The first thing into 2D mode is I want this display.
So let's go into the display container have actually renamed it rename it display.
There it is.
And I gonna make sure this is always aligned to the center.
So whatever's in here will be centered and let's just make sure that we're extending out here.
So I'm going to go to size flags and on the horizontal we can expand.
So if this gets bigger it'll just take up the right amount of room.
Second thing on is I want this light.
So let's go in here and I'm going to use on ready variable.
Now this is useful if I'm using a component that hasn't loaded in yet when got a loads it'll load from
the top of the same tree run this script and I keep loading display and this status light aren't in
there yet.
So what I would say is use this as a variable the moment you're ready don't bother checking if it's
there.
So we'll have a display and this is going to be a dollar sign.
And then you could drag the display across and you read the quotation marks is.
Don't need them.
That's my display.
And do the exact same thing with the status light on ready just call status light
quit light statist light is redundant.
And that's just going to be La la la la la.
Where did you go.
Here come back.
No no no.
Get back in the script huh.
Ok fine.
There we go.
Done why I was doing that but we fixed it.
It's all good.
You could also by the way just right click on it and go to copy nose path and put it in that way.
But I want to drag it so I dragged it it says oh I forgot what the word variable in this light was a
lot of work was it OK.
That light is now there.
All right.
Now we need the door to open when the guess is the same as the combination.
Easiest way to do this is with the signal.
So if I go back to a locked door saying I can wire a signal from number pad to locked door except no
pad doesn't is a pop up and there's nothing here that will actually tell me the combinations correct.
We have to create that in script to do that.
Nice and simple.
I just need to make a new signal means the signal key word and call it combination.
Correct.
Not connect.
Now let's save the script and just make sure I'm in the right scene.
I am and I seem to get back to locked door.
You should now see that there's a brand new combination and I can just connect that so many connect
that to locked door and what's going to happen is nice and easy open.
We know what open is because it's in the door G.D. script.
So going can run the open function indoors G.D. when it gets this signal.
Once again that signal when we tell it to in the script.
So that's nice and easy.
All right let's talk about what we're gonna need to do the first thing to do is make sure all the buttons
are wired in on the number pad.
Now we could do it this way right.
We could go inside.
Button one get oppressed to connect.
Don't do this by the way.
I'm just demonstrating what I could do and then get a button to get a pressed and then get a button
three and get a press.
And this is really irritating not least of which because the code in here is going to be largely similar
probably identical.
This is a real waste of time and effort any time you find yourself repeating code like this.
There's probably an easier way and always go for the easy way the easy way is more efficient more elegant.
It is not as elegant encoding so I'm going to disconnect these signals just made
and get rid of all that zombie code.
I don't need by based on my code.
OK.
So what's the better way of doing this.
Well let's make a ready function and that ready function.
I'm going to call a brand new function called Connect buttons.
So what is a function connects buttons What do you do.
Nope.
Buttons typing is easy today.
It's not easy at all online.
OK.
What I want to do is I want to tell it go to this grid container and then get all of these children.
And if they're buttons then why are the minutes connections.
OK.
To do that I'm going to use a full loop a for loop says for whatever this criterion is for criteria
in whatever I'm doing then keep doing this.
So every time this criteria in this range or whatever this is is true.
Run the following code.
So in this case I would say for child because I'm counting the children in I'm not in his range I'm
going to use this great container right here.
So let's go to sign.
I'm going to drag the green container in boop.
Aha.
That's so nice.
OK.
So I'm going get the grid container and I'm going to get children.
Let's just make this nice big again.
OK.
So this what child could be anything I could call it for button I shouldn't do that and I'll show you
why.
Because now I need to check if the button is a button.
I don't want to wire in this status light.
I only want wiring the buttons.
And if I write if button and then I can use the keyword is and that's going to say if it's a type of
node if it's a class and the type of note I want is capital B UTC or n.
And if button is button is a really silly bit of coding makes perfect sense.
Gotta be fine with it.
I'm fine with it.
But now I've got button with a lowercase be a pop with them uppercase B and they mean different things
in the same function.
And it's a really bad idea.
I only use child for child in a grid container.
All these children so for every child is its container.
Check if the child is of the type of button then what I need to do is connect it as a signal.
Okay so I only use child dot connect which is exactly the same as wiring an existing signal.
And now I need a few things are cyclical what we need we need the string of the signal itself where
it's going.
What the method the function is.
And any arguments we want to bring in.
Okay.
Well let's take a look at these.
First we need is the string.
I mean use the buttons signal pressed and I could see this if I want you by going out to free mode and
looking at their existing signals and that's pressed with lowercase P..
Exactly as it is.
So that's going to use that signal.
Okay.
So where it was targeting its target itself.
And I need a function for it to go to call it button.
Let me use a capital B pressed.
And finally I need to give it a value.
And this is the smart bet that I'm really fond of.
I'm going to use child dot text.
See what we're doing is we're using the label information that we've put on the button itself.
Let's take a look at it.
Hello loud truck and whatever this whatever is written on the button will not be transmitted.
This means you could make no pads with letters words phrases whatever you want.
And as long as those texts in there it will now send that text across.
Okay so now let's make the button press function
with a capital B and come on.
So the problem with doing it this way and with bringing this arguments I'm going to call this button
because remember what it's called here and what it's called here doesn't matter.
What matters is the value that's passed through before we do this code let's just figure out what else
we need.
I need to press the buttons I need to check if the guesses is right so let's make a function called
to check guests
and who's going to write pass in here.
This gives us lots of space.
Just get res tabs.
There we go.
OK what else we need we need when you're entering information.
So function and just call it enter for now.
And I want to update the display right.
So when I'm pressing the button have the numbers to show so it's got a function Update display.
One more thing I do want to do.
There we go.
One more thing I do want to do is want to make sure that the lock resets itself whenever we've finished
entering a guest.
So the guest is right or wrong or if I leave the number pad and come back I want that guest to reset.
So we need a way of resetting the lock like a function reset lock.
There is one more thing I do want to put Emma we'll leave that for now.
These are the key functions right.
So let's start with what happens when a button is pressed well first most of these buttons are numbers
but one isn't.
One is OK let's kind of distraction free mode real quick and just see what the button.
Okay.
Text is I'm going to copy this because the way I've capitalized it does matter.
We are now comparing strings and we need to be precise.
Okay.
So if button is equal to remember two equals compare a value one equal set of value is equal to.
Okay then want to check the guests if it's not then I want to suggest something else.
I want to run the enter function and I want to pass through whatever button if pressed so I will not
run that as an argument.
So say you can't do that.
You've got too many arguments let's just put it in here OK quick issue here.
When I'm doing this I need to compare numbers because remember these are integers right these are numbers
but these on the button are taxed as strings we need to cost that some cost.
This button value as an integer which can put spaces you can see it easily don't need the spaces in.
This is gonna turn whatever string is into an integer.
Be advised this means that if any of your buttons don't have an integer and are not okay we're going
to crash.
So if you've written banana banana is not an integer banana is infinite.
Sorry.
Then what you minions again.
All right let's go through these in order.
So next we've got is check.
Guess what.
Check guest do.
Well the first thing that is to say if the guest is the same as the combination if the guest is the
same as a combination then we just need to send that information across.
Right.
So I'm just going to go to emit signal combination correct and that's all it is to do.
I am going to change that in a moment.
I mean he's a timer at the moment so that you can see it's is there and then the panel will hide and
then the door open just to give people feedback.
But for now that'll work.
What else do you do.
OK.
That's actually the bare minimum we need for check.
Guess we will fancy that up in just a moment.
What if it's not what if it's not then I need to reset the lock.
OK so if you typed in 0 4 5 2 by mistake he shouldn't say 0 4 5 2 0 4 5 1 because you will never be
able to get that right.
So now we can reset that.
OK.
So let's get to entry the button.
Well first thing I do is I can to a guess dot a pen because this is an array.
And what's the information the button.
So whatever value you've pressed append that to the array once you've done that we want to update the
display.
So let's put optic display in there.
OK.
Updating the display.
Well I want the display text
to be the guess.
Except we've got two different kinds of variables.
Guess he's an array of integers.
Right.
So we at least see an array of integers because we need to see if it's the same as combination.
Text can't display integers and it can't display arrays so we need a way of turning an array of integers
into a string.
To do that we're going to use a very specialized cast or pool string array like a quick look at that
pull string array is an array specifically designed to hold a string.
In other words we can put this array in here and then use join to turn it into a single piece of information.
Now what we're doing here is when a join and the argument we use is a blank string.
No space nothing.
So we'll now display whatever those integers are as a single string so the entire array we turn to one
string all right.
So currently we have it.
So if you press Okay we'll check the gas but what if you've typed in enough numbers let's do that as
well.
If the gas dot signs whose size is equal to the combination size then check the gas.
That is a column.
Check gas.
Great.
Okay.
Now let's take a quick look at resetting the lock.
First thing I do is I want to get the display text
to be a blank string.
I also want to clear the gas.
So whatever the gas is so the gas has to be blank.
You do need to do both.
If you just do one of these the other won't happen.
We could clear the gas and the text will have labels on it before we clear the text but the gas is what
it's comparing to.
Not the text.
Okay.
Couple a little bit of timing on ready.
I'm going to reset the lock right here so that's just gonna empty out the display and getting ready
for us and that should be the bare minimum.
Let's take a look see if I mess this up.
I might mess this up.
I have mess this up to see what I've done.
I hope I see one of them.
Okay.
That's my fault.
On this trying to connect this child text is actually part of an array.
All the arguments being passed are in an array so it can't just be a string.
It has to be an array.
It can be an array with nothing but a string in it.
That's perfectly fine.
Now let's try and OK everything's looking good.
When I go into this mode for a minute get down to this door and here's some buttons pardon me gods.
What they may do makes a little bit easier for myself.
I mean you're back to level 1 in 2 demoed why is the number of backup going.
Thank you.
I'm going gonna grab this door is locked or go to move mode.
You move up here so I can play with it a little bit easier.
A second look at that again.
And we have 0 4 5 1.
Door opens and this will fade when I move it out.
So now I want a way of fading that's out when we leave we'll do something as a locked door script so
you can see here.
Anybody exited.
We're hiding the number pad.
We'll do the exact same thing if the combination is correct socially and part which is the height.
There we go.
So now if I get this right the love a pad will vanish
looking good.
OK.
Now let's add a little bit of juice a little bit of polish to our game.
Let's get back to the number I had seen and I want to add a couple of things.
The first thing that we can control a is I want to add an audio stream player.
I don't want the 2D or the 3D.
And studied I want to use this as a 3D game.
I don't look too deep because I has position information.
This isn't based on what's happening in the level as opposed to it's over.
This isn't based on where things are right so if I'm opening a number pad I don't want to hear it to
the right the left.
This is hard information.
This is game information.
So when you use audio stream player and if we get into SFX you'll see here there are these two different
sound effects as two tone one and three tone one I just press that
and Ellen
one thing you notice they're looping down them looping.
That's like both of them get to input switch off loop and press re import remembers plus report.
OK so we have these two sounds let's sets you don't want to set these in script much easier.
So now when we what's going to happen we press the button that's feels like good place.
Let's go and pick the audio string player which is right here.
Dot string.
That's the sound effects using equals.
And this is a file.
So we need to use load to cast the string them about to bring in as a file.
OK.
So I'm pressing a button I'm thinking the two tone one Yeah that looks good.
I bring that in there.
And that should be it boop.
Now we need to actually play it.
So let's go.
All you string plan.
Don't play.
And when we check the gas if it's correct.
Right here.
Let's go.
Audio Stream player dot stream equals load because it's not a string.
It's a file and a drag this one in here.
Right.
That
you drag this in here.
There goes.
And let's play it.
So audio stream player don't play.
So now we should have some sound effects
quite fond of that.
Good.
OK.
One more thing want to do.
Let's take a look at this.
Number pad in 2D.
We have this light right.
And we've got it already lined up as a variable.
I want this to go green.
When we're ready to go and in order for the player to see that because this is vanishing remember the
combinations right.
We need to delay the combination correct signal being sent.
So that's my challenge to you.
I would like you to have the light on the number pad.
Turn green.
If the combination is correct use timer mode and delay the combination correct signal being sent when
that light goes green so pulls the video give it a shot.
And when you're ready I'll show you my solution.
All right.
Let's see what we can do.
So back into it.
And I'm gonna come out of this view because this is the wrong view.
First they need to do is I need to make sure I have the right light.
So back into graphics to interface into P and G and we've got right here the area dot red and Dot great.
These are the two I want maybe a different color if you prefer but I mean he's not red dot green.
Admittedly red and green as I've said before really bad colors for critical information but it's tradition
also.
I'm going to stick with it for now.
OK.
Let's open a script and what I want to do is I don't need this output for a start and I can press control
and backslash to get rid of that window could mess up a little bit more space.
OK.
So on reset lock I'm going to reset the light color to dot red.
To do that I'm going to go.
Status lights.
I call it sounds like I call it light dim light.
Light and I call it light I call it light.
OK good and I won't affect its texture.
How do I know it's the texture.
I can take a look at it.
I can press state as light and mouse over it.
And that's the property I want.
Good.
OK.
So what's it going to be.
It's going to be load because it's a file of a string.
And then I can just drag that in.
Great.
So now if the combination is correct right here we can just go white dot texture
equals load and then drag in the green one so far so good.
Whoops.
What am I doing.
I put it in the audio player.
No no no good.
So that's going to be good.
But we probably won't see it.
Here's why.
We'll go in here.
I'm going to poop.
Never saw it.
I'm sure it happened.
We didn't see it.
So I'm going to add a bright new note as a child and I'm pattern at a timer.
I was control a timer set the timer as a one shot and I to connect the signal.
So on time it time out up to the number pad you don't need all of these and we certainly don't need
that theme information.
All right.
So now I can take a mixed signal conversion.
Correct.
Cut it and just put it right here on time a timeout.
And now where that was I can go timer dot stopped.
Now this can be a one second pause between the gasping months correct and that's the signal being sent
so take a look how that looks
are quite fond of that back over here.
What time.
Zero.
It didn't clear need to check that don't I.
OK.
So when the guess is correct when you start the timer I also need to reset the lock.
I'm really glad to check that.
Let's take one more look I've just realized that I think very silly I've just undone the green light
thing look red.
Why.
Because reset lock switches it to red.
OK.
So we're just gonna take this out and put it on time a timeout.
There we go.
Let's just pretend I never did that one more time as if I had a brain over here.
0 4 5 1 green light vanishes.
DOOR OPENS which means you have a second off to get the combination correct which means you'd better
hope there's no one behind you.
There we go.
We now have wired indoors I can read combinations
in this video.
We've looked at how to make four loops.
We've looked at wiring multiple child nodes using a full loop and an IS statement checking a node if
it's a specific type.
If child is button and we've played with pull string array and join some excellent work.
And I'll see you on the next video.